getaround_utils/README.md, before:

# getaround_utils

Backend shared utility classes

## Railties

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Dotenv

Enable currated .env files loading
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/dotenv'

GetaroundUtils::Railties::Dotenv.load
```

Additional files can be loaded with the highed precedence via the `DOTENVS` variable, ie:
```
DOTENVS=custom1,custom2 rails c
# Will `load` .env files in the following order:
# - `.env.custom1.local`
# - `.env.custom1`
# - `.env.custom2.local`
# - `.env.custom2`
# - `.env.<RAILS_ENV>.local`
# - `.env.<RAILS_ENV>`
# - `.env.all.local`
# - `.env.all`
# - `.env.local`
```

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Lograge

Enables lograge (http logs) with favored default.
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/lograge'
```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/railties/lograge_spec.rb)

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Ougai

Enables structured log with Ougai.
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/ougai'
```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/railties/ougai_spec.rb)

## Engines

### GetaroundUtils::Engine::Health

Provides a `Rack` application to expose "health" endpoints (used by Shipit)

- `/release_version`
- `/commit_sha1`
- `/migration_status`

The engine can be mounted in a Rails application: **(`config/routes.rb`)**
```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  mount GetaroundUtils::Engines::Health.engine, at: '/health'
end
```
**This will generates `/health/release_version`, `/health/commit_sha1` and `/health/migration_status` endpoints**

## Mixins

### GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

- Enables lograge (http logs) with favored default.
```ruby
class MyClass
  include GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

  def append_infos_to_loggable(payload)
    payload[:static] = 'value'
  end

  def action
    loggable_log(:info, 'hello', dynamic: 'value')
  end
end

MyClass.new.action # :info message="hello" origin="MyClass" static="value" dynamic="value"

```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/mixins/loggable_spec.rb)

- Offers an abstraction to log messages with a configurable `alert_threshold` attribute

```ruby
class MyClass
  include GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

  def action
    monitorable_log(:my_event_to_be_monitored, dynamic: 'value')
  end
end

MyClass.new.action # :info message="monitorable_log__my_event_to_be_monitored" origin="MyClass" dynamic="value", threshold=10
```
The threshold is configured in the relevant Rails configuration (eg `config/environments/production.rb`)
```ruby
# ...
  config.monitorable_log_thresholds = {
    my_event_to_be_monitored: 10
  }
# ...
```
You may set / override the configured thresholds with an environment variable of the event name prefixed with `MONITORABLE_LOG__`, for instance `MONITORABLE_LOG__MY_EVENT_TO_BE_MONITORED`.

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/mixins/loggable_spec.rb#L171)

## Misc

### GetaroundUtils::LogFormatters::DeepKeyValue

This log formatter will serialize an object of any depth into a key-value string.
It supports basic scalars (ie: `Hash`,`Array`,`Numeric`,`String`) and will call "#inspect" for any other type.

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/log_formatters/deep_key_value_spec.rb)

Commit message:

[GetaroundUtils] Adds `GetaroundUtils::Utils::ConfigUrl.from_env` helper (#432)

getaround_utils/README.md, after:

# getaround_utils

Backend shared utility classes

## Railties

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Dotenv

Enable currated .env files loading
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/dotenv'

GetaroundUtils::Railties::Dotenv.load
```

Additional files can be loaded with the highed precedence via the `DOTENVS` variable, ie:
```
DOTENVS=custom1,custom2 rails c
# Will `load` .env files in the following order:
# - `.env.custom1.local`
# - `.env.custom1`
# - `.env.custom2.local`
# - `.env.custom2`
# - `.env.<RAILS_ENV>.local`
# - `.env.<RAILS_ENV>`
# - `.env.all.local`
# - `.env.all`
# - `.env.local`
```

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Lograge

Enables lograge (http logs) with favored default.
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/lograge'
```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/railties/lograge_spec.rb)

### GetaroundUtils::Railties::Ougai

Enables structured log with Ougai.
```
# config/application.rb
require 'getaround_utils/railties/ougai'
```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/railties/ougai_spec.rb)

## Engines

### GetaroundUtils::Engine::Health

Provides a `Rack` application to expose "health" endpoints (used by Shipit)

- `/release_version`
- `/commit_sha1`
- `/migration_status`

The engine can be mounted in a Rails application: **(`config/routes.rb`)**
```ruby
Rails.application.routes.draw do
  # ...
  mount GetaroundUtils::Engines::Health.engine, at: '/health'
end
```
**This will generates `/health/release_version`, `/health/commit_sha1` and `/health/migration_status` endpoints**

## Mixins

### GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

- Enables lograge (http logs) with favored default.
```ruby
class MyClass
  include GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

  def append_infos_to_loggable(payload)
    payload[:static] = 'value'
  end

  def action
    loggable_log(:info, 'hello', dynamic: 'value')
  end
end

MyClass.new.action # :info message="hello" origin="MyClass" static="value" dynamic="value"

```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/mixins/loggable_spec.rb)

- Offers an abstraction to log messages with a configurable `alert_threshold` attribute

```ruby
class MyClass
  include GetaroundUtils::Mixins::Loggable

  def action
    monitorable_log(:my_event_to_be_monitored, dynamic: 'value')
  end
end

MyClass.new.action # :info message="monitorable_log__my_event_to_be_monitored" origin="MyClass" dynamic="value", threshold=10
```
The threshold is configured in the relevant Rails configuration (eg `config/environments/production.rb`)
```ruby
# ...
  config.monitorable_log_thresholds = {
    my_event_to_be_monitored: 10
  }
# ...
```
You may set / override the configured thresholds with an environment variable of the event name prefixed with `MONITORABLE_LOG__`, for instance `MONITORABLE_LOG__MY_EVENT_TO_BE_MONITORED`.

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/mixins/loggable_spec.rb#L171)

## Misc

### GetaroundUtils::Utils::DeepKeyValue

This log formatter will serialize an object of any depth into a key-value string.
It supports basic scalars (ie: `Hash`,`Array`,`Numeric`,`String`) and will call "#inspect" for any other type.

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/utils/deep_key_value_spec.rb)

### GetaroundUtils::Utils::ConfigUrl

This helper allows to manage configuration urls with password extracted in a dedicated variable.

It uses `*_URL` variable and tries to compute `*_PASSWORD` inside the parsed url.

```ruby
# Environment variables
# TEST_CONFIG_URL="mysql://username@localhost:666/test"
# TEST_CONFIG_PASSWORD="password"

GetaroundUtils::Utils::ConfigUrl.from_env('TEST_CONFIG')
# => "mysql://username:password@localhost:666/test"
```

For more details, [read the spec](spec/getaround_utils/utils/config_url_spec.rb)
